Isolate examples documentation (#5332)
dart-lang/site-www: src/language/concurrency.md

  }
</style>

This page contains a conceptual overview of how concurrent programming works in 
Dart. It explains the event-loop, async language features, and isolates from
a high-level. For more practical code examples of using async features and
isolates, read the [Asynchrony support](/language/async) and 
[Isolates](/language/isolates) pages. 

Concurrent programming in Dart refers to both asynchronous APIs, like `Future`
and `Stream`, and *isolates*, which allow you to move processes to separate
cores.

All Dart code runs in isolates, starting in the default main isolate, 
and optionally expanding to whatever subsequent isolates you 
explicitly create. When you spawn a new isolate, 
it has its own isolated memory heap, and its own event loop. 
The event loop is what makes asynchronous and 
concurrent programming possible in Dart.

## Event Loop

Dart’s runtime model is based on an event loop. 
The event loop is responsible for executing your program's code,
collecting and processing events, 

> running garbage collection processes, and more.

Reviewer: @ericwindmill Lasse said garbage collection probably isnt part of the event loop [here](https://github.com/dart-lang/site-www/pull/5332#discussion_r1402421621)

As your application runs, all events are added to a queue,
called the *event queue*. 
Events can be anything from requests to repaint the UI,
to user taps and keystrokes, to I/O from the disk.

> Because your app can’t predict what order events will happen, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because your app can’t predict the order events will happen, 
```

the event loop processes events in the order they're queued, one at a time.

![A figure showing events being fed, one by one, into the
event loop](/assets/img/language/concurrency/event-loop.png)

> The functioning of the event loop resembles this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way the event loop functions resembles this code:
```

```dart
while (eventQueue.waitForEvent()) {
  eventQueue.processNextEvent();
}
```

> Even though this event loop is synchronous and runs on a single thread, most
> Dart applications need to do more than one thing at a time. For example, a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example event loop is synchronous and runs on a single thread.
However, most Dart applications need to do more than one thing at a time. For example, a
```

client application might need to execute an HTTP request, while also listening
for a user to tap a button. To handle this, Dart offers many async APIs, like
[Futures, Streams, and async-await](/language/async). 
These APIs are built around this event loop.

> For example, consider making a network request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider making a network request:

```
space between text and code blocks

```dart
http.get('https://example.com').then((response) {
  if (response.statusCode == 200) {
    print('Success!')'
  }  
}
```

When this code reaches the event loop, it immediately calls the
first clause, `http.get`, and returns a `Future`. 
It also tells the event loop to hold onto the callback in the `then()` clause
until the HTTP request resolves. When that happens, it should
execute that callback, passing the result of the request as an argument.

![Figure showing async events being added to an event loop and 
holding onto a callback to execute later
.](/assets/img/language/concurrency/async-event-loop.png)

This same model is generally how the event loop handles all other 
asynchronous events in Dart, such as [`Streams`][].

[`Streams`]: {{site.dart-api}}/{{site.data.pkg-vers.SDK.channel}}/dart-async/Stream-class.html

> ## Asynchrony types and syntax

Author: This is fine with me. I'm pretty sure all the titles in this sections are relics of the original docs, and I just didn't question them. The fact that you have any opinion at all is evidence that you've thought about it more than I have.

If you're already familiar with `Future`, `Stream`, and async-await,
then you can skip ahead to the [isolates section][].

[isolates section]: #isolates

> ### Future type syntax

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I would call this section "syntax", as it's not about a syntax specific to futures, it's about what a `Future` is. Perhaps just "Future type" is fine? Or even "Futures"?

> A promise to eventually provide a string value is typed as `Future<String>`.

Reviewer 2: As a reader, I was a bit surprised this jumped straight to an example. I think it would be helpful to offer a more generic introduction before jumping to a specific instance of it.

> A promise to eventually provide a string value is typed as `Future<String>`.

Reviewer 2: Also, it's not necessarily a promise to provide a string value because the future could complete with an error.

Technically it may never complete either, but that's probably not worth worrying about for the purposes of this doc.

I think the error case is definitely worth mentioning though. There's a good sentence from the [codelab](https://dart.dev/codelabs/async-await#what-is-a-future) that could be modified to mention errors.

```
A `Future` represents the result of an asynchronous operation that will eventually complete with a value or an error.
```

Could then go on with your specific example.

  }
</style>

> Concurrent programming in Dart refers to both asynchronous APIs, like `Future`

Reviewer: Somewhere at the start, I think there should be a clear purpose statement for the page, e.g. "This page contains a conceptual overview of Dart's options for concurrent programming" or something like that. "Conceptual overview" is also not the clearest statement, but something that tells the reader "this is reading/understanding/foundational info, not doing/practical/instructional info" before they dive in

and `Stream`, and `isolates`, which allow you to move processes to separate
cores. All Dart code runs in isolates.

An isolate is like a small space on your machine that has its own isolated
memory. If you’re coming from another language that supports multiple threads,
you’ll find that isolates are similar, but are crucially different in that
isolates can’t share memory. Most Dart apps run all their code in a single
isolate, the main isolate, but you can create more isolates if you need them.
When you spawn a new isolate, it will have its own isolated memory heap, and it
will have its own event loop. The event loop is what makes asynchronous and
concurrent programming possible in Dart.

## Event Loop

> Dart’s runtime model is based on an event loop. This event loop is responsible
> for executing the code of your program, collecting and processing events,
> running garbage collection processes, and more. As your application runs, all
> events are added to a queue, called the event queue. Events can be anything from
> requests to repaint the UI, to user taps and keystrokes, to i/o from the disk.
> Because your app can’t predict what order these events will happen, it runs this
> event loop that processes events in the order they're queued, one at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dart’s runtime model is based on an event loop. 
The event loop is responsible for executing your program's code,
collecting and processing events, running garbage collection processes, and more.

As your application runs, all events are added to a queue,
called the *event queue*. Events can be anything from requests to repaint the UI,
to user taps and keystrokes, to I/O from the disk.
Because your app can’t predict what order events will happen, 
the event loop processes events in the order they're queued, one at a time.
```
(also just a minor restructure)

![A figure showing events being fed, one by one, into the event loop](/assets/img/language/concurrency/event-loop.png)

> Implementing an event loop might resemble this:

Reviewer: This statement might be confusing for readers looking for practical information: implementing an event loop *might* resemble this? Is implementing an event loop something *I* need to do? Is it something that people actually do when writing Dart programs or is this just a visualization?

```dart
while (eventQueue.waitForEvent()) {
  eventQueue.processNextEvent();
}
```

> Even though this event loop is synchronous and runs on a single thread, most

Reviewer: "synchronous and runs on a single thread" -- is this the same as "this event loop is synchronous, meaning it runs on a single thread, ..." or are those two different things? (Haven't defined "synchronous" at this point, though it might be reasonably understood)

Author: It's not necessarily the same -- Dart's async APIs like Futures are asynchronous, but still run in a single thread

Reviewer: Ok added another explanation, thanks for explaining

Dart applications need to do more than one thing at a time. For example, a
client application might need to execute an HTTP request, while also listening
for a user to tap a button. To handle this, Dart offers many async APIs, like

> Futures, Streams, and async-await. These APIs are built around this event loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Futures, Streams, and async-await](/language/async). These APIs are built around this event loop.
```

For example, consider making a network request:
```dart
http.get('https://example.com').then((response) {
  if (response.statusCode == 200) {
    print('Success!')'
  }  
}
```

> When this code is processed by the event loop, it will immediately call the
> first clause - `http.get`, and return a `Future`. It will also tell the event
> loop to take note that sometime in the future, a specific event will happen (
> which is in this case an HTTP response), and when that event happens, it should
> execute the callback passed to `then`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this code reaches the event loop, it immediately calls the
first clause -- `http.get`, and returns a `Future`. It also tells the event
loop to take note that sometime in the future, a specific event will happen
(in this case, an HTTP response), and when that event happens, it should
execute the callback passed to `then`.
```

Questions:
First sentence: Just from looking at the code, it's not obvious why it returns a Future. Is it `then` that causes that to happen? Or is Future the return type of `http.get`? 

Second sentence: it says it "*also* tells the event loop..." to expect a future, but isn't the code telling the event loop to expect a Future *because* the first clause returns a Future, not in addition-to? If that's the case, could change it to something like: "The returned `Future` tells the event loop to look out for a specific event to occur (in this case, ..."

Also, last clause: what's a callback? Why is it passed to `then`? Is the callback the result of the `Future`?

![Figure showing async events being added to an event loop and holding onto 

> a callback to execute later.](/assets/img/language/concurrency/async-event-loop.png)

Reviewer: The idea that the event loop "holds onto" the callback for later is an illuminating description that you should consider putting in the preceding text.

> This same model is basically how the event loop handles all other 
> asynchronous events in Dart, such as [`Streams`][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This same model is generally how the event loop handles all other 
asynchronous events in Dart, such as [`Streams`][].
```

[`Streams`]: {{site.dart-api}}/{{site.data.pkg-vers.SDK.channel}}/dart-async/Stream-class.html

## Asynchrony types and syntax

If you're already familiar with `Future`, `Stream`, and async-await,
then you can skip ahead to the [isolates section][].

[isolates section]: #isolates

### Future type syntax

A promise to eventually provide a string value is typed as `Future<String>`.

> This is an example of a function that returns a Future:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example of a function that returns a `Future`:
```

<?code-excerpt "lib/future_syntax.dart"?>
```dart
Future<String> _readFileAsync(String filename) {
  final file = File(filename);

>   // .then() returns a Future

Reviewer: There's the answer to my earlier question. So I guess you were just introducing a very high-level idea before and this section goes more in depth. I think you could either put this detail in that earlier paragraph, or at least say in that paragraph that the exact mechanics of what you're describing will be covered later (I prefer the former)

Author: I'm not sure what you're referring to.

Author: I've also realized that this code comment is misleading. Both `readAsString` and `then` return Futures. `then` is a function on the Future class (that also returns a future.)  I updated that code comment, and I'll update the text if you can clarify it for me.

Reviewer: I was referring to my questions here, which you addressed. So I'll resolve this

{% endprettify %}

The `main()` function uses the `await` keyword in front of `_readFileAsync()`
to let other Dart code (such as event handlers) use the CPU while native code
(file I/O) executes. Using `await` also has the effect of converting
the `Future<String>` returned by `_readFileAsync()` into a `String`. As a
result, the `contents` variable has the implicit type `String`.

{{site.alert.note}} 
The `await` keyword works only in functions that have `async` before the 
function body. 
{{site.alert.end}}

As the following figure shows, the Dart code pauses while `readAsString()`

> executes non-Dart code, in either the Dart virtual machine (VM) or the operating

Reviewer 2: I know you didn't write this, but I think we should drop "the Dart virtual machine" mention, as Dart could be running on other platforms too. I think just "the Dart runtime" is sufficient.

```suggestion
executes non-Dart code, in either the Dart runtime or the operating
```

system (OS). Once `readAsString()` returns a value, Dart code execution resumes.

![Flowchart-like figure showing app code executing from start to exit, waiting 
for native I/O in between](/assets/img/language/concurrency/basics-await.png)

> ### Stream syntax

Reviewer 2: Same as the futures section, this section is not about syntax, it's about what streams are.

Dart also supports asynchronous code in the form of streams. Streams
provide values in the future and repeatedly over time. A promise to provide a
series of `int` values over time has the type `Stream<int>`.

> This example will return a new `int` value every second.

Reviewer 2: Not a big deal, but it's not the example that will return a new `int`, but rather the stream created in the example.

Also, it might be better to stick to the phrasing "emits" so the reader doesn't think `Stream.periodic` is being returned every second or something like that.

What do you think about an introduction like:

```suggestion
In the following example, the stream created with `Stream.periodic`
repeatedly emits a new `int` value every second.
```

<?code-excerpt "lib/stream_syntax.dart"?>
```dart
Stream<int> stream = Stream.periodic(const Duration(seconds: 1), (i) => i * i);
```

#### await-for and yield

Await-for is a type of for loop that executes each subsequent iteration of the
loop as new values are provided. In other words, it’s used to “loop over”
streams. In this example, a new value will be returned from the function

> `sumStream` as new values are emitted from the stream that’s provided as an

Reviewer 2: Same idea here with the "return" vs "emit" terminology, since `sumStream` doesn't keeping returning a new value, but instead the stream it returns keeps emitting new values.

argument. The `yield` keyword is used rather than `return` in functions that return
streams of values. 

<?code-excerpt "lib/await_for_syntax.dart"?>
```dart
Stream<int> sumStream(Stream<int> stream) async* {
  var sum = 0;
  await for (final value in stream) {
    yield sum += value;
  }
}
```

If you'd like to learn more about using `async`, `await`, `Stream`s and 
`Future`s,  visit the [asynchronous programming codelab][].

[asynchronous programming codelab]: /codelabs/async-await

## Isolates

Dart also supports concurrency via isolates. Most modern devices have multi-core
CPUs. To take advantage of multiple cores, developers sometimes use
shared-memory threads running concurrently. However, shared-state concurrency is
[error prone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_condition#In_software) and can
lead to complicated code.

Instead of threads, all Dart code runs inside of isolates. Each isolate has its

> own memory heap, ensuring that none of the state in an isolate is accessible

Reviewer 2: I know this is pre-existing, but since we're here, let's avoid the term "heap" since they can share the same heap. It sounds like "has its own global fields" is the most accurate, but "has its own memory" is probably fine too.

from any other isolate. Isolates can only communicate to each other via message
passing. No shared state between isolates means concurrency complexities like
[mutexes or locks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lock_(computer_science))
and [data races](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_condition#Data_race)
won't occur in Dart. That said, isolates don't prevent race conditions all
together. For more information on this concurrency model, read about
the [Actor model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Actor_model).

Using isolates, your Dart code can perform multiple independent tasks at once,

> using additional processor cores if they’re available. Isolates are like threads

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using additional processor cores if they're available. Isolates are like threads
```

or processes, but each isolate has its own memory and a single thread running an

> event loop. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
event loop.
```

computation—[parsing a large JSON file][json], for example—consider offloading
that computation to a worker isolate, often called a _background worker._
A common case, shown in the following figure, is spawning a simple worker
isolate that performs a computation and then exits. The worker isolate returns
its result in a message when the worker exits.

[json]: {{site.flutter-docs}}/cookbook/networking/background-parsing

![A figure showing a main isolate and a simple worker isolate](/assets/img/language/concurrency/isolate-bg-worker.png)

A worker isolate can perform I/O
(reading and writing files, for example), set timers, and more. It has its own
memory and doesn't share any state with the main isolate. The worker isolate can
block without affecting other isolates.

## Isolate syntax

There are two recommended ways to work with isolates in Dart: [`Isolate.run()`][] and
[`Isolate.spawn()`][]. Which method you use depends on the use-case.

For doing a single computation on a separate thread, use the static
method `Isolate.run`. When you need to create an isolate that will handle
multiple messages over time, or a background worker, use the `Isolate.spawn`

> method.

Author: I don't know the answer to your question, but "execute a single callback" is 100% accurate, so I'll change it to that.

[`Isolate.run()`]: {{site.dart-api}}/dev/dart-isolate/Isolate/run.html
[`Isolate.run()`]: {{site.dart-api}}/dev/dart-isolate/Isolate/spawn.html

### Isolate.run

The static Isolate.run method requires one argument: a callback that will be 
ran on the newly spawned isolate.

<?code-excerpt "lib/isolate_run_syntax.dart"?>
```dart
int slowFib(int n) => n <= 1 ? 1 : slowFib(n - 1) + slowFib(n - 2);

// Compute without blocking current isolate.
void fib40() async {
  var result = await Isolate.run(() => slowFib(40));
  print('Fib(40) = $result');
}
```
{{site.alert.info}}
In most cases, `Isolate.run` is the recommended API to run processes in the background.
{{site.alert.end}}

### Isolate.spawn

Creating background worker isolates requires some work to set up 2-way 
communication between the main isolate and the worker isolate. This code 
snippet shows the bare-minimum needed to create a long-lived isolate. You 
can see a more detailed code example and explanation on the [Isolates][] page.

[Isolates]: /language/isolates

> <?code-excerpt "lib/isolate_spawn_syntax.dart"?>

Reviewer 2: I do think it's likely better to just reference the other page rather than reproduce a pared down version here.

        workerIsolateSendPort = message;
      } else if (message is String) {
        print(message);
      }
    });

    _isolate = await Isolate.spawn(
      _workerIsolateEntryPoint,
      mainIsolateReceivePort.sendPort,
    );
  }

  static void _workerIsolateEntryPoint(dynamic message) {
    final receivePortInSpawnedIsolate = ReceivePort();
    late SendPort sendPortToMainApp;

    if (message is SendPort) {
      sendPortToMainApp = message;
      sendPortToMainApp.send(receivePortInSpawnedIsolate.sendPort);
    }

// This listener callback will be called each time a subsequent message
// is sent from the main isolate to the worker isolate
    receivePortInSpawnedIsolate.listen((dynamic message) async {
      if (message is String) {
        final dartObjects = jsonDecode(message);
        sendPortToMainApp.send(dartObjects);
      } else {
        throw const SocketException(
            'Message sent to isolate port has an unexpected type');
      }
    });
  }

  void dispose() {
    _isolate.kill();
  }
}

// Elsewhere in app
void startProcessInBackground(String jsonBlob) {
  BackgroundWorker().workerIsolateSendPort.send(jsonBlob);
}
```

> ## Performance and isolate groups

Author: If you're talking specifically about isolate groups, I think it should be a follow up issue.
I believe it's extremely niche for a Dart developer to need to know about isolate groups. When I surveyed the Insiders and the flutterdev reddit, and in my follow up conversations with a couple insiders who had advanced use-cases, isolate groups came up exactly one time (IIRC).

And less importantly, I don't know how to write those docs :) I wouldn't know how to make an example app that cared about Isolate groups, so I certainly wouldn't know how to talk about performance related to isolate groups.

> ## Performance and isolate groups

Author: Also, FWIW, this section is copied exactly from the existing Dart documentation.  

Also, I realize I have little-to-no practical knowledge of isolate groups, but it does seem like the current paragraphs say everything there is to say. So the updates would largely just be code examples. 

I'm happy to do the follow up work, by the way. I just don't want to add more to this already large chunk of updates.

- Parsing and decoding exceptionally large JSON blobs
- Processing and compressing photos, audio and video
- Converting audio and video files
- Performing complex searching and filtering on large lists or within
  filesystems
- Performing I/O, such as communicating with a database
- Handling a large volume of network requests

### Isolates aren't threads

If you’re coming to Dart from a language with multithreading, it’d be reasonable
to expect isolates to behave like threads, but that isn’t the case. Isolates
have their own memory heaps, ensuring that none of the state in an isolate is
accessible from any other isolate. Therefore, isolates are limited by their
access to their own memory. For example, if you have an application with a
global mutable variable called `configuration`, that variable will be a separate
variable in your spawned isolate. If you mutate that variable in the spawned
isolate, it will remain untouched in the main isolate. This is how isolates are
meant to function, and it's important to keep in mind when you’re considering
using isolates.

### Message types

`message`s sent via SendPort can be almost any type of Dart object, but there
are a few exceptions:

> - Objects with native resources (subclasses of e.g. NativeFieldWrapperClass1). A
>   Socket object for example refers internally to objects that have native
>   resources attached and can therefore not be sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Objects with native resources
  - For example, subclasses of [`NativeFieldWrapperClass1`](), or a
    [`Socket`]() object that refers internally to objects that have native
    resources attached and can therefore not be sent.
```

I don't understand the given example(s ?), but basically just keep any elaboration in a sub-bullet and code font + link on any API mentions

- ReceivePort
- DynamicLibrary
- Finalizable
- Finalizer
- NativeFinalizer
- Pointer
- UserTag

> - MirrorReference

Reviewer: Code font and link all of these

- Instances of classes that either themselves are marked with @pragma
  ('vm:isolate-unsendable'), extend or implement such classes cannot be sent
  through the ports.

> Apart from those exceptions any object can be sent. See documentation for
>   [`SendPort`][] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apart from those exceptions, any object can be sent. 
Check out the [`SendPort`][] documentation for more information.
```

[`SendPort`]: {{site.dart-api}}/{{site.data.pkg-vers.SDK.channel}}/dart-isolate/SendPort-class.html

<a id="web"></a>

> ## Concurrency on the web

Reviewer: I know this is another topic the Dart VM team heard user feedback about, wanting more practical examples. If that's covered in the main isolates page, link to it here.

Author: We do need to follow up on this, and John has even offered to help on the subject. 

In the Flutter PR about isolates, everyone agreed (including SWEs), that it's outside the scope of this PR, because on the web you don't use the Isolate API.

In client apps, the result of a too-lengthy synchronous operation is often
[janky (non-smooth) UI animation][jank]. Worse, the UI might become completely
unresponsive.

[jank]: {{site.flutter-docs}}/perf/rendering-performance

### Background workers

If your app's UI becomes unresponsive due to a time-consuming
computation—[parsing a large JSON file][json], for example—consider offloading
that computation to a worker isolate, often called a _background worker._
A common case, shown in the following figure, is spawning a simple worker
isolate that performs a computation and then exits. The worker isolate returns
its result in a message when the worker exits.

[json]: {{site.flutter-docs}}/cookbook/networking/background-parsing

![A figure showing a main isolate and a simple worker isolate](/assets/img/language/concurrency/isolate-bg-worker.png)

A worker isolate can perform I/O
(reading and writing files, for example), set timers, and more. It has its own
memory and doesn't share any state with the main isolate. The worker isolate can
block without affecting other isolates.

> ### Isolate syntax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using isolates
```

There are two ways to work with isolates in Dart, depending on the use-case: 

* Use [`Isolate.run()`][] to perform a single computation on a separate thread.
* Use [`Isolate.spawn()`][] to create an isolate that will handle
  multiple messages over time, or a background worker.

In most cases, `Isolate.run` is the recommended 
API to run processes in the background.

> ### `Isolate.run()`

Reviewer 2: Is this intended to be a subheading of the previous section similar to the `Isolate.spawn` section below?

```suggestion
#### `Isolate.run()`
```

The static `Isolate.run()` method requires one argument: a callback that will be 
run on the newly spawned isolate.

<?code-excerpt "lib/isolate_run_syntax.dart"?>
```dart
int slowFib(int n) => n <= 1 ? 1 : slowFib(n - 1) + slowFib(n - 2);

// Compute without blocking current isolate.
void fib40() async {
  var result = await Isolate.run(() => slowFib(40));
  print('Fib(40) = $result');
}
```

> #### Isolate.spawn

Reviewer 2: Do you want this in code syntax to be consistent with the `Isolate.run` section?

```suggestion
#### `Isolate.spawn`
```

  var backgroundWorker = await BackgroundWorker.initialize();
  backgroundWorker.send(jsonBlob);
}
```

### Performance and isolate groups

When an isolate calls [`Isolate.spawn()`][], the two isolates have the same
executable code and are in the same _isolate group_. Isolate groups enable
performance optimizations such as sharing code; a new isolate immediately runs
the code owned by the isolate group. Also, `Isolate.exit()` works only when the
isolates are in the same isolate group.

In some special cases, you might need to use [`Isolate.spawnUri()`][], which
sets up the new isolate with a copy of the code that's at the specified URI.
However, `spawnUri()` is much slower than `spawn()`, and the new isolate isn't
in its spawner's isolate group. Another performance consequence is that message
passing is slower when isolates are in different groups.

[`Isolate.spawnUri()`]: {{site.dart-api}}/{{site.data.pkg-vers.SDK.channel}}/dart-isolate/Isolate/spawnUri.html

### Limitations of isolates

#### Isolates aren't threads

If you’re coming to Dart from a language with multithreading, it’d be reasonable
to expect isolates to behave like threads, but that isn’t the case. Each isolate

> has its own memory heap, ensuring that none of the state in an isolate is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
has its own memory, ensuring that none of the state in an isolate is
```

accessible from any other isolate. Therefore, isolates are limited by their
access to their own memory. 

For example, if you have an application with a
global mutable variable, that variable will be a separate
variable in your spawned isolate. If you mutate that variable in the spawned
isolate, it will remain untouched in the main isolate. This is how isolates are
meant to function, and it's important to keep in mind when you’re considering
using isolates.

#### Message types

> Messages sent via [`SendPort`][]

Reviewer 2: Do consider mentioning `Isolate.run` and `Isolate.exit` here as it may not be clear to readers that they are subject to the same limitations.

can be almost any type of Dart object, but there are a few exceptions:

- Objects with native resources, such as [`Socket`][].
- [`ReceivePort`][]
- [`DynamicLibrary`][]
- [`Finalizable`][]
- [`Finalizer`][]
- [`NativeFinalizer`][]
- [`Pointer`][]
- [`UserTag`][]
- Instances of classes that either themselves are marked with @pragma
  ('vm:isolate-unsendable'), extend or implement such classes cannot be sent

>   through the ports.

Reviewer 2: The pragma annotation should be in code syntax.

Also, it seems like this sentence is from the API docs, but it is hard to read. I'm struggling with an improvement though. @MaryaBelanger any ideas?

Author: It is copied from the API docs. I think the better thing to say is just "classes that are marked @pragma...", because the API docs are then immediately referenced and linked, so folks can easily see the explanation. Also, if someone understands and is working with these niche, advanced objects, I think we can assume they understand that the same rules would apply whether the class is annotated itself or it's extending an annotated class

Author: That's what I did in the separate PR that I put in for just the concurrency page. Feel free to disagree there, but I'm resolving here so we can keep the conversation sane.

Apart from those exceptions, any object can be sent. 

> Check out the [`SendPort`][] documentation for more information.

Reviewer 2: Consider linking directly to `SendPort.send` docs here since almost all of the details are there.

does not support isolates. Dart web apps can use [web workers][] to run scripts
in background threads similar to isolates. Web workers' functionality and
capabilities differ somewhat from isolates, though.

For instance, when web workers send data between threads, they copy the data
back and forth. Data copying can be very slow, though, especially for large
messages. Isolates do the same, but also provide APIs that can more efficiently
_transfer_
the memory that holds the message instead.

Creating web workers and isolates also differs. You can only create web workers
by declaring a separate program entrypoint and compiling it separately. Starting
a web worker is similar to using `Isolate.spawnUri` to start an isolate. You can
also start an isolate with `Isolate.spawn`, which requires fewer resources
because it
[reuses some of the same code and data](#performance-and-isolate-groups)
as the spawning isolate. Web workers don't have an equivalent API.

[Dart web platform]: /overview#platform
[web workers]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers

## Additional resources

- If you’re using many isolates, consider

>   the [IsolateNameServer][]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the [`IsolateNameServer`][]
```

(and update the reference)

  in Flutter, or

>   the [pub package][] that clones

Reviewer 2: Consider naming the package here:

```
[`package:isolate_name_server`][] that provides
similar functionality for non-Flutter Dart applications.
```

  the functionality for Dart applications not using Flutter.

> - Dart’s isolates are an implementation of

Reviewer 2: This reads less like an "Additional resource" and more like an instructional sentence. Try to keep the entries in a list parallel in their construction.
